---

layout: post
title: Dusting off Open Source CU
excerpt: After seven years of silence, there's more to say.
legacy: false
author:
  name: Trey Reeme
  twitter: creeme
  bio: Cofounder and COO of Trabian
  image: authors/trey.png
---

In 2008, it was time to press pause on Open Source CU. We started the site in 2005 as a side-project; a place where Matt, Brent and I could say what we wanted to say about the credit union movement.

With our medium being a blog and with blogs being so novel, we became known as bloggers first. To many, we were a development shop second.

In 2008 as social media made its way into the mainstream, we reconsidered our use of it and the site was mothballed. Trabian grew into new lines of business, I eventually grew into leading IT and marketing at a credit union I'd long respected, and that was that.

Until it wasn't.

Earlier this year, after four years in San Francisco, it was time for me to make a change. (I relished the time and feel like I was pretty good at what I did, but I am personally happier in jeans and a t-shirt than in ALM meetings and exam interviews.)

In April I rejoined Trabian. Matt and I began thinking about the best way to tell our story. We've seen a lot of successes and learned a lot of lessons (him on the vendor side, me on the credit union side) and there's much to share. Rebuilding Open Source CU was the clear answer.

Open Source CU was and will be a community focused around idea-sharing. It's a place where we'll point to what we like, offer suggestions to improve what should be improved, share code, discuss technology trends, dissect industry rumblings, and make plenty of predictions that will prove us to be mostly delusional but occasionally prescient.

Call us out and keep us humble. We want to make credit unions better. If you do, too, let's do this.
